### Terms
1. **Atomic Operations:** Operations which cannot be subdivided into other operations, they by default are thread safe.
2. **synchronised keyword:** An approach to thread safety where only one thread can be executing all the synchronized code on an instance. So, if there is a lot of synchronized code on a specific instance, it would have significant performance impact.
3. **Lock:** The thing with lock is, instead of having one big chunk of synchronised code, we are breaking it up into multiple smaller chunks of synchronized code. 2 different thread can't acquire same Lock at a time, but they can acquire 2 different Lock at a time, so it's better than synchronised where 2 different threads can't acquire any synchronized code on an instance.
4. **Atomic Classes:** Atomic classes provides methods for basic atomic operations. So, if ur methods are just doing basic atomic operations, then u can remove the Locks. Methods provided by the atomic classes are threads safe. If you are not doing basic atomic operations then u still need to use Locks.
5. **Concurrent Collection:** They make a lot of operations which involves multiple steps into atomic operations.
6. **ConcurrentHashMap:** ConcurrentHashMap divides the HashMap into multiple regions & creates different Locks for each region. Thus, if you're inserting in one region, u can do updates & retrieval from another region unlike a HashTable where the entire HashTable is locked if a thread is accessing it. Therefore, we not only get the advantage of atomic operations but also better performance.
7. **CopyOnWriteArrayList/CopyOnWriteMap :** A thread-safe variant of ArrayList/Map in which all mutative operations (add, set, and so on) are implemented by making a fresh copy of the underlying array. This is ordinarily too costly, but may be more efficient than alternatives when traversal operations vastly outnumber mutations, and is useful when you cannot or don't want to synchronize traversals, yet need to preclude interference among concurrent threads. The "snapshot" style iterator method uses a reference to the state of the array at the point that the iterator was created. This array never changes during the lifetime of the iterator, so interference is impossible and the iterator is guaranteed not to throw ConcurrentModificationException. The iterator will not reflect additions, removals, or changes to the list since the iterator was created. Element-changing operations on iterators themselves (remove, set, and add) are not supported. These methods throw UnsupportedOperationException.